* * *

title: "Challenge Overview" hide_table_of_contents: true

* * *

<head> <html data-theme="dark" />

<meta name="description" content="A $1,000,000+ machine learning and computer
vision competition" />

<meta property="og:type" content="website" /> <meta property="og:url"
content="https://scrollprize.org" /> <meta property="og:title"
content="Vesuvius Challenge" /> <meta property="og:description" content="A
$1,000,000+ machine learning and computer vision competition" /> <meta
property="og:image" content="https://scrollprize.org/img/social/opengraph.jpg"
/>

<meta property="twitter:card" content="summary_large_image" /> <meta
property="twitter:url" content="https://scrollprize.org" /> <meta
property="twitter:title" content="Vesuvius Challenge" /> <meta
property="twitter:description" content="A $1,000,000+ machine learning and
computer vision competition" /> <meta property="twitter:image"
content="https://scrollprize.org/img/social/opengraph.jpg" /> </head>

The objective of the Vesuvius Challenge is to make history by reading an
unopened Herculaneum scroll for the very first time. We believe that an open
competition will accelerate progress and enable us to achieve this goal in
2023.

<div>We are providing all contestants with the following resources:</div>

  * **Prizes** : $1,000,000+ in prizes, including a $700,000 Grand Prize and the rest in Progress Prizes. The first progress prize is a $100,000 ink detection competition on Kaggle. We also have some smaller Open Source Prizes and Private Prizes.
  * **Data** : 3D X-ray scans of two unopened scrolls from Herculaneum, and scans and images of three papyrus fragments
  * **Tutorials and tools** : the current best tools and techniques for virtually unwrapping papyrus scrolls
  * **Community** : a Discord server where you can connect with other contestants and the Vesuvius Challenge team

### Join the community

  * Join our Discord server to ask questions, learn about what is going on, hang out with fellow contestants and interested onlookers, and perhaps find teammates.
  * Receive updates every 1-2 weeks from our mailing list on Substack.
  * Follow @scrollprize on Twitter.

Our team is available for any questions and feedback on Discord. You can also
email us at team@scrollprize.org.

### Grand Prize ($700,000)

The Grand Prize will go to the first team to read four passages of text from
the inside of the two intact scrolls. More details on the qualifying criteria
are available here.

Here are the scrolls in question:

<div className="flex w-[100%]"> <div className="w-[100%] mb-2 mr-2"><img
src="/img/overview/scroll1-small.jpg" className="w-[100%]"/><figcaption
className="mt-0">Scroll 1</figcaption></div> <div className="w-[100%]
mb-2"><img src="/img/overview/scroll2-small.jpg"
className="w-[100%]"/><figcaption className="mt-0">Scroll 2</figcaption></div>
</div>

We have provided you with 8µm 3D X-ray scans of each of these scrolls, which
you can find here. Your job is to extract the text from these scans.

You can approach this challenge through any means necessary: machine learning,
computer vision, or machine-assisted tools operated by humans.

<figure> <video autoPlay playsInline loop muted className="w-[100%]"
poster="/img/overview/scroll-inside-animation-4.jpg"> <source
src="/img/overview/scroll-inside-animation-4.webm" type="video/webm"/> <source
src="/img/overview/scroll-inside-animation-4.mp4" type="video/mp4"/> </video>
<figcaption className="mt-0">3D X-ray scan of a scroll <a
href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PpNq2cFotyY">(source)</a></figcaption>
</figure>

#### Why is this difficult?

As you will read in the tutorials, advanced tools and techniques exist for
virtually unwrapping papyrus scrolls. This was demonstrated in 2015 when Dr.
Seales's team unwrapped the En-Gedi scroll, and in their recent result
identifying ink from 3D X-ray scans in the Herculaneum scrolls.

<div>But the Herculaneum scrolls have proved more challenging. The remaining
challenges include:</div>

  * Segmenting the scrolls. The Herculaneum scrolls are especially long, tightly wrapped, damaged, and distorted. To date, no one has successfully done a large-scale segmentation of these scrolls to identify the surfaces of all the rolled layers.
  * Finding the ink. The ink used in the Herculaneum scrolls is radiolucent, making it difficult to see in the scans. Recently, Dr. Seales's team has trained a machine learning model which can detect the ink from subtle patterns in the 3D X-rays. This works in the fragments, but these models are not yet perfect and will probably need to be improved to work at the scale of an entire scroll.
  * Putting it all together. Applying the ink detection models to the segmented scroll has not yet been successfully demonstrated.

Based on the landmark results that Dr. Seales and his team have recently
produced, we believe that it is possible to read the Herculaneum scrolls using
the scans that we already have and the tools and tecniques that they have
developed. And that is the Vesuvius Challenge!

The Grand Prize deadline is 11:59pm Pacific, December 31st, 2023.

## Progress prizes

The purpose of progress prizes is to encourage contestants to solve important
subproblems and release their work. We also hope that they attract more
participants who are interested in starting with a narrower task, and then go
on to try to win the Grand Prize.

Progress prizes are optional! You can choose to skip them and work directly on
the Grand Prize.

### Ink Detection on Kaggle ($100,000 total)

As you will learn in the tutorials, one of the big challenges of reading the
Herculaneum Papyri is detecting the ink in the 3D X-ray scans.

<figure> <video autoPlay playsInline loop muted className="w-[100%]"
poster="/img/tutorials/ink-detection-anim2-dark.jpg"> <source
src="/img/tutorials/ink-detection-anim2-dark.webm" type="video/webm"/> <source
src="/img/tutorials/ink-detection-anim2-dark.mp4" type="video/mp4"/> </video>
</figure>

For this important subproblem, we are offering a $100,000 Ink Detection
Progress Prize. This progress prize is hosted on Kaggle, and the final
submission deadline is June 14th, 2023.

### Open Source Prizes (3x $2,000)

All of us organizing the Vesuvius Challenge are big believers in open source
and incremental progress. We want to encourage building in the open and
benefiting the whole community — something that is typically disincentivized
in a competition format.

That’s why we are introducing “open source prizes”. These are small prizes
that may be awarded for any open source or publicly available contributions:
software, documentation, research notes, Kaggle notebooks, anything goes.

  * **Anything that you release in public** can qualify for an open source prize. You need to publicly release your work before you can win an open source prize.
  * It has to be accessible and usable by other contestants (e.g. licensed under MIT, Apache, GPL, Creative Commons, etc).
  * You may make multiple submissions. We may award a single prize to a set of multiple submissions by one person or team.
  * Your submission will be judged subjectively: the Technical Team (Dr. Brent Seales, Nat Friedman, Stephen Parsons, Seth Parker, JP Posma, and Daniel Havíř) will decide what they think are the best open source contributions.
  * The first batch of prizes will be **3 prizes of $2,000 each** (plus a fun surprise!), which you must submit for by **April 11th 11:59pm PT**.
  * If you are submitting as a team, the team leader should make the submission, and is responsible for distributing the prize money (and fun surprise) among the team.
  * Make your submissions here.

### Private Prizes (10x $250)

We're looking to learn what people are working on, and to reward folks who
have privately been exploring the data. It's simple:

  * Tell us in 1-2 paragraphs what you have done so far and/or are planning to do (privately, we'll keep it confidential).
  * We select **10 submissions** that get **$250**!

You don't need to have made much progress at all to be eligible. Even a solid
idea that you haven't implemented yet could win. We will not share anything
about your submission with anyone.

Email team@scrollprize.org before **Tuesday, April 11th 11:59pm PT** (same as
the open source prize deadline). If you have a team, please have the team
leader send the email, and include who is on the team.

### Future Progress Prizes

We have some ideas of what future progress prizes might best accelerate
overall progress on the Vesuvius Challenge, but we’re also keeping an open
mind. If you have suggestions, please let us know!

