* * *

title: "The Data" hide_table_of_contents: true

* * *

<head> <html data-theme="dark" />

<meta name="description" content="A $1,000,000+ machine learning and computer
vision competition" />

<meta property="og:type" content="website" /> <meta property="og:url"
content="https://scrollprize.org" /> <meta property="og:title"
content="Vesuvius Challenge" /> <meta property="og:description" content="A
$1,000,000+ machine learning and computer vision competition" /> <meta
property="og:image" content="https://scrollprize.org/img/social/opengraph.jpg"
/>

<meta property="twitter:card" content="summary_large_image" /> <meta
property="twitter:url" content="https://scrollprize.org" /> <meta
property="twitter:title" content="Vesuvius Challenge" /> <meta
property="twitter:description" content="A $1,000,000+ machine learning and
computer vision competition" /> <meta property="twitter:image"
content="https://scrollprize.org/img/social/opengraph.jpg" /> </head>

<div> <table> <tbody> <tr> <td><a
href="https://forms.gle/HV1J6dJbmCB2z5QL8">full-scrolls/</a><br/>4.7TB</td>
<td> <div className="mb-4">8µm 3D X-ray scans of two intact scrolls (top
halves only), scanned in horizontal slices from bottom to top. Each half
scroll scan is 14,000 .tif files, 120MB each. Each slice is 8µm tall, so this
scroll half is 11.2cm tall. Both were scanned at 54keV, though we also
released a smaller slice of Scroll 2 at 88keV. These are the scans you need to
read to win the Grand Prize. See the <code>meta.json</code> files for
details.</div> <div className="flex flex-wrap max-w-[500px]"> <div
className="sm:w-[45%] mb-2 mr-2"><img src="/img/overview/scroll1-small.jpg"
className="w-[100%]"/><strong>Scroll 1</strong></div> <div
className="sm:w-[45%] mb-2"><img src="/img/overview/scroll2-small.jpg"
className="w-[100%]"/><strong>Scroll 2</strong></div> </div> </td> </tr> <tr>
<td><a
href="https://forms.gle/HV1J6dJbmCB2z5QL8">fragments/</a><br/>1.6TB</td> <td>
<div className="mb-4">4µm 3D X-ray scans, infrared images, and hand-labeled
ink masks for three broken-off fragments of papyrus. Each fragment scan is
7,000 - 14,000 .tif files. The 3D scans are in vertical slices from side to
side. Both 54keV and 88keV volumes are a released for every fragment. These
data are for use in training ink detection models and entering the Kaggle
competition.</div> <div className="flex flex-wrap max-w-[500px]"> <div
className="sm:w-[33%] mb-2 mr-2" style={{ maxWidth: "calc(50% - 8px)" }}><img
src="/img/data/fr1.jpg" className="w-[100%]"/><strong>Fragment
1</strong></div> <div className="sm:w-[31.6%] mb-2 mr-2" style={{ maxWidth:
"calc(50% - 8px)" }}><img src="/img/data/fr2.jpg"
className="w-[100%]"/><strong>Fragment 2</strong></div> <div
className="sm:w-[27%] mb-2 mr-2" style={{ maxWidth: "calc(50% - 8px)" }}><img
src="/img/data/fr3-small.jpg" className="w-[100%]"/><strong>Fragment
3</strong></div> </div> </td> </tr> <tr> <td><a
href="https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/vesuvius-challenge-ink-
detection/data">Kaggle data</a><br/>37GB</td> <td> <div>Post-processed version
of the “fragments/” data above. Two operations were done on this data:</div>
<ul> <li>3D X-ray scans (54keV) were transformed into “surface volumes”, as
described in the <a href="/tutorial1">tutorials</a>.</li> <li>Infrared photos
were aligned with these surface volumes, and binary ink masks were created to
denote the presence of ink.</li> </ul> </td> </tr> <tr> <td><a
href="https://gist.github.com/janpaul123/280262ebce904f7366fe4cc155593e90">campfire.zip</a><br/>338MB</td>
<td> <div className="mb-4">X-ray scans and images of the Campfire Scroll</div>
<div className="flex flex-wrap"> <div className="sm:w-[35%] max-w-[100px]
sm:max-w-[1000px] mb-2 mr-2"><img src="/img/tutorials/campfire-rolled2.jpg"
className="max-w-[100px]"/><br/><strong>Campfire scroll</strong></div> </div>
</td> </tr> </tbody> </table> </div>

To learn more about the data, read the data paper “EduceLab-Scrolls:
Verifiable Recovery of Text from Herculaneum Papyri using X-ray CT”.

## How to Download the Data

Fill out the registration form and you will be provided with a download link
automatically. The license terms of this data are specified on the download
form.

The tutorial data (campfire.zip) is <a
href="https://gist.github.com/janpaul123/280262ebce904f7366fe4cc155593e90">available
to download</a> without registering.

If you are just entering the Kaggle competition and not working on the grand
prize, you do not need to download any data from this page; all the relevant
fragment data is available via Kaggle.

## Where did the data come from?

The two full scrolls are from the Institut de France and were scanned at about
8µm resolution at the Diamond Light Source particle accelerator. We are only
releasing data from the top halves of these scrolls (they were standing on end
when they were scanned). We will work with you to apply your techniques to the
bottom halves in order to validate your submission.

<div className="flex w-[100%]"> <div className="w-[100%] mb-2 mr-2"><img
src="/img/overview/scroll1-small.jpg" className="w-[100%]"/><figcaption
className="mt-0">Scroll 1</figcaption></div> <div className="w-[100%]
mb-2"><img src="/img/overview/scroll2-small.jpg"
className="w-[100%]"/><figcaption className="mt-0">Scroll 2</figcaption></div>
</div>

At 8µm resolution, the data files are big. We believe this resolution is
necessary to detect ink, as suggested by the excellent paper From invisibility
to readability: Recovering the ink of Herculaneum. Each .tif file in the full
scroll sans is 8 micrometers tall so if you want to grab a centimeter of them
from the middle of the scroll, you can just download 1,250 of them from the
middle of the scan. We provide scripts for doing this once you've registered.

The fragments of detached papyrus were scanned at 4µm using the same particle
accelerator. They are very tiny!

<figure> <img src="/img/data/francoise.png"/> <figcaption
className="mt-0">Francoise Berard, director of the library at the Institute de
France, with the fragments just before they were scanned; and the research
group in the scanning room of the Diamond Light Source particle
accelerator.</figcaption> </figure>

## What does the data look like?

A typical .tif file from the scrolls look like this, giving a top-down view:

<figure> <img src="/img/data/07000.jpg"/> <figcaption className="mt-0">full-
scrolls/Scroll1.volpkg/volumes/20230205180739/07000.tif (cropped)</figcaption>
</figure>

The fragments are sliced from the side:

<figure> <img src="/img/data/4000.jpg"/> <figcaption
className="mt-0">fragments/Frag1.volpkg/volumes/20230205142449/4000.tif</figcaption>
</figure>

Watch a video of a scroll:

<iframe className="w-[100%] mb-4 aspect-square"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/cY5BIxkf5m0" title="YouTube video player"
frameBorder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-
media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowFullScreen></iframe>

