* * *

title: "FAQ" hide_table_of_contents: true

* * *

<head> <html data-theme="dark" />

<meta name="description" content="A $1,000,000+ machine learning and computer
vision competition" />

<meta property="og:type" content="website" /> <meta property="og:url"
content="https://scrollprize.org" /> <meta property="og:title"
content="Vesuvius Challenge" /> <meta property="og:description" content="A
$1,000,000+ machine learning and computer vision competition" /> <meta
property="og:image" content="https://scrollprize.org/img/social/opengraph.jpg"
/>

<meta property="twitter:card" content="summary_large_image" /> <meta
property="twitter:url" content="https://scrollprize.org" /> <meta
property="twitter:title" content="Vesuvius Challenge" /> <meta
property="twitter:description" content="A $1,000,000+ machine learning and
computer vision competition" /> <meta property="twitter:image"
content="https://scrollprize.org/img/social/opengraph.jpg" /> </head>

### What are the important dates?

  * March 15th 2023: Launch!
  * April 11th 2023: First deadline of Open Source Prizes and Private Prizes.
  * June 14th 2023: Deadline of the Ink Detection Progress Prize on Kaggle.
  * December 31st 2023: Deadline of the Grand Prize.

### I would like to contribute something, but I don’t have the time to compete
for the Grand Prize, what should I do?

  * Consider competing in the Ink Detection Progress Prize on Kaggle. It is a lot smaller in scope, and will mark an important milestone towards the Grand Prize. There are 10 prizes available, for a total of $100,000.
  * You can make smaller open source contributions, which would benefit the whole community. Everyone in the community will be grateful for your work, and you might even be able to win one of the Open Source Prizes! Anything goes here: software, documentation, research notes, Kaggle notebooks, etc.

### Can I share my progress on social media?

Yes, in fact we encourage you to share your progress. Be sure to also post in
our Discord, to get feedback from the community.

The only exception is that per the data agreement, you’re not allowed to share
material revelation of text (e.g. entire words) without our permission
(including the associated code), or share the raw data.

### I’m outside the United States, can I participate and win prizes?

Absolutely! As long as we can legally pay you (no US sanctions) you can win
the prize.

### Do I have to pay taxes on my prize earnings?

This depends on the jurisdiction you live in, but generally yes, you do have
to pay taxes. Consult your tax advisor for details.

### I’m a researcher or student, and I would like work on this. Can I publish
my results in journals?

<div>Generally <strong>yes</strong>, with the conditions that are specified in
the <a href="https://forms.gle/HV1J6dJbmCB2z5QL8">Data Agreement</a>:</div>

  * Any publications and presentations must cite the EduceLab-Scrolls Dataset.
  * You won’t publish any revelation of hidden text (or associated code) without the written approval of Vesuvius Challenge.
  * If you find enough hidden text, you’ll win the Grand Prize ($700,000), and we'll work with you to put the texts in historical context, and co-publish them in academic venues. The winning code will be made public under a permissive open source license, so that others can reproduce and build on your work.

We very much encourage researchers and students to work on this! Be sure to
reach out to us on Discord or by email.

### I have made some progress, who do I inform about this?

If you want to share your work privately with the contest organizers, please
email us at team@scrollprize.org. We will keep it completely confidential. We
really appreciate you keeping us in the loop!

If you're open to sharing your improvements publicly (and be eligible for the
Open Source Prizes), you can post in Discord.

### What are the key academic papers I should read to understand the work done
so far to read the Herculaneum Papyri?

  * EduceLab-Scrolls: Verifiable Recovery of Text from Herculaneum Papyri using X-ray CT (data paper)
  * From invisibility to readability: Recovering the ink of Herculaneum
  * From damage to discovery via virtual unwrapping: Reading the scroll from En-Gedi
  * Reading the Invisible Library: A Retrospective (history preprint)

For a comprehensive overview of the field, see this list by Dr. Seales' lab.

### What are the best talks that have been given on this work?

  * Reading the Herculaneum Papyri: Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow
  * Digital Restoration Initiative: Reading the Invisible Library
  * Reading the Invisible Library: Virtual Unwrapping and the Scroll from En-Gedi

<figure className=""> <img src="/img/faq/getty-own-photo-small.jpg"/>
<figcaption className="mt-0">The Getty Villa in California, a reproduction of
the Villa of the Papyri</figcaption> </figure>

### What are some good books that I should read to learn more?

The best book we have found is David Sider’s The Library of the Villa dei
Papiri at Herculaneum

Here are some other excellent books we recommend:

  * Joseph Jay Deiss, Herculaneum: Italy's Buried Treasure
  * Kenneth Lapatin (ed.), Buried by Vesuvius: The Villa dei Papiri at Herculaneum
  * Christopher Charles Parslow, Rediscovering Antiquity: Karl Weber and the Excavation of Herculaneum, Pompeii, and Stabiae
  * Leighton D. Reynolds & Nigel Guy Wilson, Scribes and Scholars: A Guide to the Transmission of Greek and Latin Literature
  * Philip Matyszak, 24 Hours in Ancient Rome
  * A new book about the papyri in German — Die Papyri Herkulaneums im Digitalen Zeitalter by Kilian Fleischer — contains an estimate of how many pages of text we can expect to find if we can make the scrolls readable, which we translated into English.
  * Opera incerta sugli Dèi by Marzia D’Angelo has a cool insert (see below).

<figure className=""> <video autoPlay playsInline loop muted
className="w-[100%]" poster="/img/faq/maquette2.jpg"> <source
src="/img/faq/maquette2.webm" type="video/webm"/> <source
src="/img/faq/maquette2.mp4" type="video/mp4"/> </video> <figcaption
className="mt-0">Herculaneum scroll reconstruction from a <a
href="https://bibliopolis.it/shop/opera-incerta-sugli-dei/">book</a> by Marzia
D’Angelo <a href="https://cispe.org/philodemus-opus-incertum-
pherc-89-1301-1383/">(source)</a></figcaption> </figure>

### What are some good YouTube videos I should watch?

  * Secrets of the Villa of the Papyri
  * The Ancient Library of Papyri
  * Reading the Papyrus Scrolls found at Herculaneum
  * Out of the Ashes: Recovering the Lost Library of Herculaneum
  * For more videos see this page

### Do we really need 8µm resolution? These data files are huge!

We are releasing about 5.5TB worth of 3D volumetric data of the scrolls (8µm),
and 1.8TB worth of data of the fragments (4µm). We don't know what the minimum
resolution necessary to detect ink is, but this paper suggests that it may be
8µm: From invisibility to readability: Recovering the ink of Herculaneum.

### If an algorithm can read ink from a fragment X-ray, is it likely to work
on a scroll?

We hope so, but we suspect this will be a key challenge.

We’re organizing the Ink Detection Progress Prize, to find the best possible
approach for detecting ink on fragments. With this solid foundation we hope it
will be easier to apply these algorithms to the scrolls.

### Can machine learning models hallucinate letters that aren't there?

This is a risk for models that are trained on letterforms. We strongly
recommend that participants guard against the risk of hallucination in their
models and, will review all submissions with this in mind.

### What is papyrus and how is it made?

Papyrus is a grassy reed that grows along the banks of the Nile in Egypt. It
can grow up to 4.5 meters tall and 7.5cm thick. The tough outer rind is peeled
away. The green inner pith is peeled or sliced into strips.

The strips are laid out in two layers in a grid pattern. They are pressed
together until the layers merge like velcro. And then left out in the sun to
dry, where they turn light brown. The sheets – called kollemata – are smoothed
out with an ivory or seashell ruler. The kollemata are then glued together
with paste made of flour and water. Then the areas where they are joined are
hammered smooth. This forms a long piece of papyrus, usually 15-30 feet,
comprised of up to 20 kollemata.

The Papyrus is rolled up around a dowel called an umbilicus. Portions of it
are unrolled for writing. The first section, called the protokollon, is
usually left blank. Text is written in columns with a quill and inkwell. Inks
are made of varied substances.

<div>For some good videos about how papyrus is made see:</div>

  * Meet Some Of The Last Papyrus Makers In Egypt Keeping A 5,000-Year-Old Craft Alive
  * Myriam Krutzsch papyrus workshop

### How big are the letters?

Letter sizes vary, and of course we don’t know what’s inside the unopened
scrolls, but we expect the opened fragments to be fairly representative. You
can measure how big the letters are by looking at the aligned surface images,
which have a voxel resolution of approximately 4µm, like the original CT data
(though there can be some local variation due to the registration / flattening
process). So you could open, for example,
<code>fragments/Frag1.volpkg/working/54keV_exposed_surface/ir.png</code>,
measure a letter size in pixels, and multiply by 4µm.

There are also some measurements in this paper by Richard Janko, though it’s a
little hard to infer actual letter sizing from it. If someone wants to do a
more thorough review of the range of letter sizes found in all the Herculaneum
papyri, we’d happily include your results here!

### How can we get more ground truth data? Can I make my own carbonized
scrolls?

Yes! Just buy this papyrus on Amazon, roll it up, and put it inside a Dutch
oven at 500F+ (260C+) for a few hours.

This is very instructive and we highly recommend doing it! You will see how
fragile the charred scroll is, how it blisters in the heat, how the layers can
separate, how it turns to dust as you handle it.

Of course, for it to be useful as ground truth data, you will need to find
someone to let you image it in their CT scanner.

<figure> <img src="/img/faq/charredpapyrus-small.jpg"/> </figure>

### What software is available currently that might help me?

The two main pieces of software developed by Dr. Seales’ lab are Volume
Cartographer and ink-id. Both are open source and available on Github.

In the tutorials we also show you how to use generic software to work with 3D
volumes (Fiji) and meshes (MeshLab).

### Where can I find collaborators?

  * Discord thread
  * Kaggle forum thread

### What would the papyrus scrolls look like when unrolled?

Something like this:

<figure className=""> <img src="/img/faq/janko-papyrus-small.jpg"/>
<figcaption className="mt-0">Reconstructed scroll <a
href="https://www.stockholmuniversitypress.se/site/chapters/10.16993/baj.f/download/462/">(source)</a></figcaption>
</figure>

### Why are there no spaces in the text?

In ancient Latin and Greek, they didn’t use spaces! Spaces were added later to
aid foreign language learners.

### How does CT-scanning work exactly?

We take X-ray photographs of the object from different angles. Typically this
is done by having an X-ray source on one side of the object, and an X-ray
camera on the other side, and rotating the object on a platform. If the object
doesn’t fully fit in the frame of the camera, it can be moved around as well.

<div>Just like with any digital camera, there are a lot of settings and
parameters. The most important for you to know are:</div>

  * **Resolution:** the dimensions of each pixel in an X-ray photo, typically denoted in µm (micrometers or “microns”). Lower is better. We scanned the scrolls at 8µm, which we think should be enough to detect ink patterns, but we scanned the fragments at 4µm just in case. Renting beam time on a particle accelerator is expensive, but if we need to we can go back and scan objects at even lower resolutions.
  * **Energy level:** the energy of the X-ray electrons, typically expressed in keV (kiloelectronvolts). For particle accelerators this is one precise number, whereas for bench top scanners this is more of a range. We think lower is better, since carbon responds better to lower energy levels. We scanned everything twice, at 54keV and 88keV (though for the scrolls we only had time for a smaller slice at 88keV).

At high resolutions the field of view of the camera is too small to capture
the object in its entirety, so multiple passes have to be made. Typically
these are stitched together as part of the scanning process.

<div className="flex flex-wrap items-end"> <figure className="sm:w-[34%]
mr-4"> <video autoPlay playsInline loop muted className="w-[100%] rounded-xl"
poster="/img/tutorials/imagej-raw-xrays2.jpg"> <source
src="/img/tutorials/imagej-raw-xrays2.webm" type="video/webm"/> <source
src="/img/tutorials/imagej-raw-xrays2.mp4" type="video/mp4"/> </video>
<figcaption className="mt-0">Raw X-ray photos</figcaption> </figure> <figure
className="sm:w-[63%]"> <video autoPlay playsInline loop muted
className="w-[100%]" poster="/img/tutorials/fragment-rotating2.jpg"> <source
src="/img/tutorials/fragment-rotating2.webm" type="video/webm"/> <source
src="/img/tutorials/fragment-rotating2.mp4" type="video/mp4"/> </video>
<figcaption className="mt-0">A fragment rotating <a
href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fg_08ukGlMw">(source)</a></figcaption>
</figure> </div>

From the X-ray photos from different angles we can reconstruct a 3D volume,
using a clever algorithm called tomographic reconstruction (which is where “CT
scanner” gets its name; ”computed tomography”). This is typically done by
software that comes with the scanner.

<div className="flex flex-wrap items-end justify-between"> <figure
className="sm:w-[38%]"> <video autoPlay playsInline loop muted
className="w-[100%]" poster="/img/tutorials/fragment-volume2.jpg"> <source
src="/img/tutorials/fragment-volume2.webm" type="video/webm"/> <source
src="/img/tutorials/fragment-volume2.mp4" type="video/mp4"/> </video>
<figcaption className="mt-0">Volumetric representation of a fragment, showing
multiple layers of papyrus</figcaption> </figure> <figure
className="sm:w-[60%]"> <video autoPlay playsInline loop muted
className="w-[100%]" poster="/img/faq/fragment-pointcloud.png"> <source
src="/img/faq/fragment-pointcloud.webm" type="video/webm"/> <source
src="/img/faq/fragment-pointcloud.mp4" type="video/mp4"/> </video> <figcaption
className="mt-0">Mesh representation of the same fragment</figcaption>
</figure> </div>

The resulting 3D volume is like a 3D image. Each unit is called a “voxel”
(instead of “pixel”), and has a particular brightness (it’s greyscale). This
3D volume is typically represented as a “.tif image stack”. This is just a
bunch of .tif images where each image (called a “slice”) represents a
different layer the z-direction, typically starting at the bottom and moving
upwards.

### What signals might be present in the 3D X-ray scans for ink detection?

We don’t really know, but we suspect that ink might be filling in between the
grid pattern of papyrus, kind of like syrup filling in gaps in a waffle.

<figure className="max-w-[400px]"> <img src="/img/faq/waffle.png"/>
<figcaption className="mt-0">Syrup filling in gaps in a waffle <a
href="https://youtu.be/mwe9sHZ58A0?t=3168">(source)</a></figcaption> </figure>

Ink might also be sitting on top of the papyrus, causing a slight bump on the
surface. In Tutorial 4 we should several examples of where the ink is directly
visible in slices of 3D X-ray scans, which is promising. The talks at the top
of this page also go into some details.

There might be some effect of indentation of the writing instrument, but it’s
probably not very significant. The thought has generally been that any
indentation effect would be even smaller than ink w.r.t. the scan resolution
and maybe not significant when compared against the natural relief of the
papyrus fibers. However, this has not been explored in detail on this type of
material (look at the paper "Revisiting the Jerash Silver Scroll" for work on
an etched metal scroll), so we don’t know for sure.

It could be worthwhile to try to reverse engineer what machine learning models
are seeing, so that perhaps we can see it more directly. Perhaps this could
influence other ink detection methods or future scanning efforts.

### Does segmenting and flattening need to happen before ink detection?

This ordering is largely historical and due to the way we’ve constructed label
sets, which relies on doing the segmentation and flattening first. But this
can’t be the only way to do it, and we’d love to see the pipeline get shaken
up.

For example, the model input of ink detection could be sampled directly from
the original 3D X-ray volume, instead of using a “surface volume” as an
intermediate step. This could avoid loss of resolution during the sampling
process into a differently oriented volume, which happens when constructing a
surface volume.

The downside of such an approach is that a lot more data needs to be
accessible on disk, since the original 3D X-ray volumes are much bigger than
the surface volumes (37GB vs 1.6TB in total for all fragments). This can be
problematic for cloud training, which might not have enough available hard
drive space. However, since we only need to access the voxels around the mesh,
the data size could be reduced (creating something like a surface volume, but
retaining the original coordinate space, and avoiding any resampling).

### Fiji/ImageJ crashes, what can I do about that?

Fiji/ImageJ doesn’t work well with extremely large datasets such as our
scrolls or fragment volumes, though downsampling might help. If you’re
experiencing problems even with the campfire.zip dataset, then try to increase
the memory limit: _“Edit > Options > Memory and Threads”_. It might also help
to run the software in a different operating system, such as in a Linux VM.
For example, on Windows the following setup seems to work well: WSL2, Ubuntu
20, Windows 11, using the default WSL X server setup.

A great contribution to the community would be to build an open source 3D
volume viewer that is tailored to this problem. If you are interested in
building something like that, do let us know in Discord!

### How can I run non-Python/R code in Kaggle notebooks?

Will from Kaggle says: if the code can be run on Linux, you can upload it as a
dataset and call it from within Python, or using Juptyer's magic command `!`.

### What are the triangle artifacts in the surface volumes?

There are triangle artifacts in the surface volumes, from the way the original
volume is sampled using the mesh to create the surface volume. The triangles
likely do correspond to mesh triangles. They don’t typically show up so
distinctly, so we guess the mess geometry is “interesting” in this area.

<figure> <img src="/img/faq/triangles.webp"/> </figure>

### I would like to read the works that have been recovered from the scrolls
so far, where I can I find them?

<div>Most are by Philodemus. This is a list of English translations we have
found so far:</div>

  * Philodemus: On Anger. (2020), David Armstrong & Michael McOsker. SBL. ISBN 1628372699
  * Philodemus: On Death. (2009), W. Benjamin Henry. SBL. ISBN 1-58983-446-1
  * Philodemus: On Frank Criticism. (1998), David Konstan, Diskin Clay, Clarence, E. Glad. SBL. ISBN 1-58983-292-2
  * Philodemus, On Piety, Part 1. (1996). Critical Text with Commentary by Dirk Obbink. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-815008-3
  * Philodemus, On Poems, Book 1. (2001). Edited with Introduction, Translation, and Commentary by Richard Janko. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-815041-5
  * Philodemus, On Poems, Book 2, with the fragments of Heracleodorus and Pausimachus. (2020). Edited with Introduction, Translation, and Commentary by Richard Janko. Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780198835080
  * Philodemus, On Poems, Books 3-4, with the Fragments of Aristotle, On Poets. (2010). Edited with Introduction, Translation, and Commentary by Richard Janko. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-957207-0
  * Philodemus, On Property Management. (2013), Voula Tsouna. SBL. ISBN 1-58983-667-7
  * Philodemus, On Rhetoric Books 1 and 2: Translation and Exegetical Essays. (2005). Clive Chandler (editor). Routledge. ISBN 0-415-97611-1
  * David Sider, (1997), The Epigrams of Philodemos. Introduction, Text, and Commentary. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-509982-6
  * Philodemus: On Methods of Inference. 2nd edition. (1978). Phillip Howard De Lacy, Estelle Allen De Lacy. Bibliopolis.

### What happened to the people when Mount Vesuvius erupted? 😢

We recommend starting with the only surviving eyewitness account: Pliny the
Younger, Letters 6.16 and 6.20.

The story of the eruption of Mount Vesuvius has captured imaginations for
centuries. The cities of Pompeii and Herculaneum are unique in how well they
were preserved. A great introduction to this story is A Timeline of Pompeii.

<figure className="sm:float-right sm:ml-4"> <img src="/img/faq/map-
herculaneum.svg"/> <figcaption className="mt-0">Map showing Mt. Vesuvius in
relation to Herculaneum, Pompeii, and Misenum (where Pliny the Younger
witnessed the event) <a
href="https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Mt_Vesuvius_79_AD_eruption.svg">(source)</a></figcaption>
</figure>

<div>Some more resources:</div>

  * Wikpedia
    * Mount Vesuvius
    * Eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 AD
    * Herculaneum
    * Pompeii
  * Books: Recommended reads on Pompeii
    * Pompeii, by Mary Beard
    * Complete Pompeii, by Joanne Berry
    * Life and Death in Pompeii and Herculaneum, by Paul Roberts
  * Movies
    * Pompeii: The Last Day
    * Pompeii (2014)

### Why did you decide to start this project?

Nat read 24 Hours in Ancient Rome during the 2020 COVID lockdown. He fell into
an internet rabbit hole that ended up with him reaching out to Dr. Seales two
years later to see how he could help speed up the reading of the Herculaneum
Papyri. They came up with the idea of the Vesuvius Challenge. Daniel was
intrigued by this idea and decided to co-sponsor it with Nat.

### Is this going to work?

We think so! Based on the results that Dr. Seales and his team have been able
to produce so far, we believe that it is possible to read the Herculnaeum
scrolls using the scans that we already have. We don’t think it’s easy, and
we’re not certain, but we believe it’s possible.

### I have a lot of money! Can I help sponsor this?

Vesuvius Challenge Inc. is a 501c3 non-profit organization that was formed
solely to solve the puzzle of the Herculaneum Papyri. It is currently funded
by the sponsors listed on the homepage, and by many hours of volunteer
contributions.

If you want to contribute money to support our operational costs or to
increase the prize amounts, please <a href="mailto:nat@nat.org">get in
touch</a>!

### Has the mainstream media covered this work in the past?

  * Watch this interview with Dr. Brent Seales on 60 Minutes!
  * The UnXplained
  * Great article by Smithsonian Magazine
  * More articles and videos on this page

### I’m a journalist and I would like to interview someone from the Vesuvius
Challenge!

Ok! Please email press@scrollprize.org.

### Do you have a scroll that looks like the Nintendo logo from GoldenEye N64?

Of course (🔊 sound on).

<figure> <video loop controls className="w-[100%]"
poster="/img/faq/papyrus-n64.jpg"> <source src="/img/faq/papyrus-n64.webm"
type="video/webm"/> <source src="/img/faq/papyrus-n64.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
</video> </figure>

### Do you have a super-cringe, over-the-top, and factually questionable
trailer video for the competition?

Naturally.

<!-- ### Tails and serifs "Some of the v2 label edits included various tails
and serifs that I omitted the first time. This scribe liked little flourishes
evidently (even more true of the other scribe on .. fragments - check the
upsilon and kappa (YK) in the middle of .. - the tail on the kappa is even
longer than it first appears!)." \-->

